docs: event bus related ADRs (#40)
openedx/openedx-events: docs/decisions/0005-event-schema-serialization-and-evolution.rst

However, for the event bus, we will be introducing more rigorous event evolution rules using an explicit schema and schema registry. We have decided to use Avro elsewhere (`OEP-52/decisions/001-schema-representation.rst <https://github.com/openedx/open-edx-proposals/pull/233/files#diff-70c71499189a23f546da507c5bfdc0fea674f4cbbc5c039298d8390d6930a5ca>`_).

Event schemas can evolve in various ways and each implementation of an event bus should choose a schema evolution configuration. The choices include how data can change, as well as the order in which producer and consumer needs to be deployed with new changes.

Event bus technologies support various schema evolutions::

- Backward / Backward Transitive: Allows you to delete fields and add optional fields. The consumer of the messages must upgrade to handle new schema before producer.

- Forward / Forward Transitive: Allows you to add fields and delete optional fields. The producer of the messages must upgrade to handle new schema before consumer of  messages.

- Full / Full Transitive: Allows you to add or delete optional fields. Either producer or consumer can change first.

> Currently, the schema for event bus messages in defined through two classes: OpenEdxPublicSignal and attrs decorated classes in data.py modules (`example <https://github.com/eduNEXT/openedx-events/blob/main/openedx_events/learning/data.py>`_).

Reviewer: This is a bit misleading. The schema is based on OpenEdxPublicSignal, which in turn must represent everything it contains. Maybe just drop this sentence, and move the link below.

OpenEdxPublicSignal defines all the information necessary to create, serialize, and send an event. This includes the data to be sent and the metadata. The data to be sent is defined as the 'init_data' attribute. 'init_data' is a dict of key/value pairs. The keys are strings and the values can be of various types (the exact supported types has not be specified yet). These keys correspond to keyword arguments sent via the signal.

> The attrs decorated classes are used to structure the data sent. Hopefully, most of the values in 'init_data' attribute in OpenEdxPublicSignal are of these attrs decorated classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this time, most of the values in `init_data` are special attr decorated classes used to provide additional structure and reuse of the data.
```
Also, add a link to the data modules from above if you wish.

Author: I would like to keep the language to suggest that most of the info in signals should be in form of attrs decorated classes. I'd like steer people towards attrs classes as much as possible.

> Some helpful information about OpenEdxPublicSignal class:

Reviewer: Seems fine to just delete this.

Decision
--------

- The ability to add new data to an event definition is being prioritized over the ability to delete information. Deleting will not be allowed without introducing breaking changes.

> - The top-level data dict of an OpenEdxPublicSignal can be evolved by adding new key/values. At this time, they will all be considered required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The top-level data dict of an OpenEdxPublicSignal can be evolved by adding new key/values. For the purposes of an explicit schema definition, these will all be considered required fields (vs optional fields).
```

- An attr Data class will not be evolved once in use. If new fields are required for an event, they can only be added into the top-level data dict.

> - The above decisions result in a decision to use “Forward / Forward Transitive” schema evolution for external events. Although, it is possible to use “Full / Full Transitive” schema evolution and defer adjusting the rule until schema changes are required, or we add more flexibility.

Reviewer: Removing the second part (which I had written) simply because it is confusing, and probably not worth the effort of clarifying.
```suggestion
- The above decisions result in a decision to use “Forward / Forward Transitive” schema evolution for external events.
```

Consequences
------------

> - As noted in the decision, once events are evolved, we must use “Forward / Forward Transitive” with the event bus for external events. This means that the producer of an updated event must upgrade to handle the new schema before consumers can be upgraded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As noted in the decision, once events are evolved, we must use “Forward / Forward Transitive” with the event bus for external events. This means that the producer of an updated event must upgrade to handle the new schema before consumers can be upgraded. This inflexibility is directly related to not (yet?) supporting optional fields.
```

- It is unclear what CI functionality can exist to catch schema changes that break the rules before the schema registry tests the rules for external events in some test environment.

> 

Reviewer: Please add:
```
- To avoid breaking changes, since all event evolution must happen in the top-level dict, and not in the attr based data classes, there is potential to have events be messier than they otherwise would be. Again, this could potentially be avoided by adding support for optional fields.
```
